# Commissioning

The commissioning professional must be responsible for the completion of the following tasks as part of normal delivery practices. It must be understood that the described operations have to be completed after delivery and prior to operation of the boat.

1. **Propeller Shaft Alignment** This must be performed after the boat is launched and subsequent to the mast being stepped and the rigging tuned. As the shaft coupling and engine mounts must be adjusted for proper shaft alignment, the coupling bolts and engine mounts can only be secured by the commissioning professional after the alignment is completed. This task is the sole responsibility of the commissioning professional.
2. **Engine Set Up** Your local authorized Yanmar service representative should perform a pre-delivery inspection and also a post-launch inspection to carry out any necessary adjustments. Idle speed, shift and throttle cable adjustments, belt tensioning, fluid and lubricant levels are not covered under the SAGA Marine Limited Warranty.
3. **Mast and Rigging** The commissioning professional is responsible for the stepping (installation) of your mast and its rigging. The mast must be tuned, that is the mast itself should be without athwartships bends and the shrouds and stays tightened to the recommended tension. If additional adjustments are necessary after the first month of sailing, there may be a labour charge for this service. The commissioning professional is responsible for securing the standing rigging and lifelines with proper sized cotter pins in addition to ensuring that chafe protection is carried out. The dealer is also responsible for ensuring that the mast is properly blocked and covered in the mast partners so as to eliminate leaks around the mast.
4. **LPG (Propane) System** The LPG tanks must be shipped empty as required for safety. Stresses incurred during transportation (primarily vibration) make it imperative that the LPG system be leak tested by the commissioning professional as part of his normal delivery practices. Filling the propane tank and ensuring that the entire LPG system is leak free prior to delivery is the responsibility of the commissioning professional.  
_Before operation of any LPG-fueled appliance, READ the relevant manual and understand the warnings. BE SURE you know how to safely operate the appliance, how to leak test and the proper steps to be taken in the event of a gas leak. Consult your dealer if you have any questions about safe operation of the appliance._
5. **Plumbing Leaks** Minor leaks may occur in the water system owing to vibration and shocks during shipping. Changes in pressure and temperature when the system is initially operated may also cause leaks. It is the responsibility of the commissioning professional to operate the water and plumbing systems during commissioning and to eliminate such leaks as are found at that time.
6. **Minor Flaws in Varnish** The woodwork found in the cabins of your SAGA i Yacht is covered with three coats of polyurethane varnish. Minor scrapes and dings may occur during shipping, unpacking or commissioning. SAGA Marine provides a varnish touch-up kit with every boat. Some owners may desire the even finer finish that is only achievable by additional coats of varnish. Ask your dealer for references to a qualified vamisher. Varnishing is a demanding task that requires time to learn properly; a yacht-quality vamisher will be expensive.
7. **Sticking drawers and doors** The cabinetry and joinerwork found in a SAGA Yacht are hand-crafted. The high level of humidity found in the marine environment will always affect the woodwork on a boat. The minor final adjustments of fit for doors, drawers and cabinets can only be done after the boat has spent time in the water. Some additional changes may still be
experienced even after your dealer has made these initial adjustments.
